Plan to rename `Qiskit/qiskit-terra` repo to `Qiskit/qiskit` (#31)
Qiskit/rfcs: ####-repo-rename.md

# Plan to rename `Qiskit/qiskit-terra` repo to `Qiskit/qiskit`

| **Status**        | **Proposed** |
|:------------------|:---------------------------------------------|
| **RFC #**         | ####                                         |
| **Authors**       | [Luciano Bello](https://github.com/1ucian0), [Kevin Krsulich](https://github.com/kdk)  |
| **Submitted**     | 2023-03-31                                   |
| **Updated**       | YYYY-MM-DD                                   |

## Summary

> In 2021, Qiskit began an evolution from a large monolithic install, which included by default the Aer simulator, the IBM Quantum provider, and large characterization and application libraries, into a leaner and more modular structure.

Reviewer: Maybe it's worth putting a link to the blog post that announced that: https://research.ibm.com/blog/qiskit-application-modules (I never quite understood why we published that on the ibm research blog it should have been on the qiskit blog).

The end goal of that progression has been a Qiskit based on core components of circuit construction, compilation, and device interfaces, and a new [ecosystem](https://qiskit.org/ecosystem/) of installable extensions which users can explore, install, and contribute to based on their interests.
As Qiskit moes towards this leaner definition, the distinction with the existing `qiskit` and `qiskit-terra` repositories is getting more and more blurry.
Many of the packages included with the Qiskit metapackage are now removed and the rest are on their way to being removed.

> Once the metapackage consists only of qiskit-terra, there will be no effective difference between Qiskit and qiskit-terra.
> However, the two repository structure might be confusing for new comers in, for example, trying to identify where they should submit an issue when encountering a problem in Qiskit, or where a particular piece of source code or infrastructure lives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, having separate `qiskit` and `qiskit-terra` repositories results in additional indirection when, for example, trying to identify where users should submit an issue when encountering a problem in Qiskit, or where a particular piece of source code or infrastructure lives.

```

The tasks are independent and can start at any point, but they need to finish before the qiskit-terra release of July.

* **ibmq-docs-out-of-metapackage**: Early in the stage, we can try to deploy `qiskit-ibmq-provider` documentation as stand-alone in `qiskit.org/ecosystem/qiskit-ibmq-provider`. This is optional, as the full documentation will be removed on July.
* **docs-out-of-metapackage**: Move documents from `qiskit/qiskit-metapackage` to `qiskit/qiskit-terra`. All the ["general documents"](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/tree/master/docs) in needs to be moved to the `qiskit/qiskit-terra` to be part of a single sphinx build process. The [`qiskit-ibmq-provider` documentation](https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/ibmq-provider.html) cannot be move to `qiskit/qiskit-terra`. Therefore, the options are:
	* Wait until the stage ibmq-out-of-metapackage when the documentation can be removed as the repo `qiskit/qiskit-ibmq-provider` gets archived.
	* Create a landing page in `qiskit.org/documentation/ibmq-provider` or `qiskit.org/ecosystem/ibmq-provider` [like Aer did](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-aer/pull/1589).  

> * **benchmarks-out-of-metapackage**: Move benchmarks from `qiskit/qiskit-metapackage` to `qiskit/qiskit-benchmarks` (repo to create). Change the related scripts to continue running and deploying <https://qiskit.github.io/qiskit/>.

Reviewer: Two things on this item. We don't necessarily have to do it via a separate repository we could put the benchmarks in the qiskit-terra (future qiskit) repo. We also don't have to use github pages for hosting either. It's just generating a static webpage so if we wanted we can put that on `qiskit.org/benchmarks` or something like that too. Both can be decided independently, basically we have 4 options:

1. New repo & github pages
2. qiskit-terra repo & github pages
3. New repo & qiskit.org hosting
4. qiskit-terra repo and & qiskit.org hosting

If we were determined to keep https://qiskit.github.io/qiskit/ then the only option to do this is option 2. Historically I've been opposed to option 2 because it led to a lot of repository bloat to contain the gh pages branch in the repo. But a recent configuration change to force push a single commit instead of maintaining the change history reduces that a lot. 

Personally, I don't think having continuity for the existing benchmark results is super critical. As long as all the data is there just using a new url isn't a big deal, so we should pick the option that we like best.

Author: Options added in f1a7289ac710696de76b474031df13b8912e9252 . I also do not feel very strong about any option in particular, but I lean towards not having them in qiskit.org, as it is a dev tool (it can be linked in the contributor guidelines).
